---
title: "Getting and Cleaning Data - project"
author: "RW"
date: '2022-06-25'
output: html_document
---

## About this repo

The "run_analysis.R" script generates a tidy dataset showing the averages of the means and standard deviations from numerous data points for physical activity as captured by smartphones. This data comes from the UCI HAR Dataset available here:

https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

More data about the dataset can be found here:

http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

(Citation: Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. A Public Domain Dataset for Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones. 21th European Symposium on Artificial Neural Networks, Computational Intelligence and Machine Learning, ESANN 2013. Bruges, Belgium 24-26 April 2013.)

## About the data

### Codebook

The final output of this script is a CSV file containing the averages of both the means and standard deviations of measures from numerous smartphone sensors collected from a number of subjects. To keep sensor names relatively short, the sensor names from the original dataset have been preserved in final output. The column names can be read as follows, from left to right:

* t | f: "t" = time; "f" = frequency
* Body | Gravity: domain measured by the device
* Acc | Gyro: device - "Acc" = accelerometer, "Gyro" = gyroscope
* Jerk | Mag: "Jerk" = Jerk signal, "Mag" = magnitude of 3D signals

The activity associated with each sensor's tracking is also recorded.

### Data transformation

The testing and training datasets are joined into a single dataset to produce the final output. Both the testing and training datasets were constructed by labeling the sensor data ("X_.txt" files) using the sensor labels ("subject_test.txt" files). The activities associated with each reading were joined from the activity file associated with each dataset ("y_.txt" file). After joining these files together, the final output was generated by grouping the joint training and testing dataset by activity and subject and averaging the sensor readings corresponding to the means and standard deviations associated with each sensor.
